turning now to our other top story
mediators from the US Qatar and Egypt
are meeting with a Hamas delegation in
Cairo for talks aimed at reaching a
ceasefire in Gaza Israel says it will
send their delegation as well but only
if it sees positive movement during the
talks the talks are taking place as
Israel threatens to launch an offensive
on the city of Rafa to pursue Hamas
militants that it holds responsible for
the October 7th Terror attacks some 1
and a half million Palestinians are
taking refuge in the southern city the
UN and the US have warned against the
operation now the truce proposal seeks
to Halt fighting and exchange hostages
for Palestinian
prisoners well since the October 7th
attacks the relatives of hostages
kidnapped by Hamas have been fighting to
keep the focus on getting their loved
ones
[Applause]
home for months prime minister
netanyahu's government has been under
men's pressure to bring the hostages
back little is known about the fate of
the around 130 hostages still held in
Gaza the number includes both civilians
and
soldiers two young children among them
but dozens of hostages are presumed to
be
dead at the end of April Hamas released
videos of two hostages one of them was
Keith seagull
seeing my father today only makes
clearer to all of us that we must reach
a deal as soon as possible and bring
everyone home I demand that the leaders
of this country watch this video and see
our father crying out for
help an earlier ceasefire in November
last year saw 105 hostages return home
mainly women children and dual Nationals
including 30 thi farmers toing a weekl
long pause in fighting there were hopes
that the truth would hold and all
hostages would be released but both
sides accused the other of breaking the
terms and fighting resumed on December
1st for the families enduring months of
Hope and heartbreak all eyes are on the
current talks many desperately hoping
for a truth that would bring back their
loved
ones we can cross now to correspondent
Tanya kma in Jerusalem Tanya hi there
tell us what is the latest on the Seas
fire and hostage
negotiations well there is a sense that
uh you know the the the talks are at a
critical stage right now and that comes
maybe also because throughout the day
there have been uh reports in mainly the
Arab media that uh there is some kind of
you know uh that the deal would be
closed but of course you have to take
those reports with a grain of Sal
there's nothing official yet we
understand that the Hamas delegation is
now in CaRu again uh with the mediators
from Egypt Qatar and also the United
States and Israel has said or some
officials here have said that they are
still waiting for the official response
by Hamas to that proposal that has been
actually going on uh all week and such a
proposal could include uh the release of
uh 33 hostages against a certain number
of Palestinian prisoners held in uh
Israeli prisoners and that would be done
within four to six weeks of a temporary
ceasefire another proposal also says
that could then go into a third into a
second and a third phase but we have no
official confirmation of uh those
proposals yet and of course at the
moment we just have to wait and see how
close both sides actually are it's a
critical phase as you say Tanya now we
have seen many various attempts to reach
a deal over the last six months is this
time any
different well there has been even more
PR especially by the United States but
also the sense of urgency and we're
seeing tonight again it's Saturday night
like in many uh month uh in the past
month and we've just seen that also in
the report uh tens of thousands of
Israelis are out in the streets calling
uh for such a deal calling also for uh
elections but also for the civilian
population in Gaza uh they are enduring
now seven month of War they want to see
uh a ceasefire now um in Israel this
phase now has been described as a sort
of last opportunity there's always they
say there's a choice between either a
deal or a ground uh uh operation uh in
rafar and at this stage it's still
really unclear there are some of the
major sticking points uh such as what
the Hamas demands concern the full
withdrawal of Israeli forces from the
Gaza Strip as well as a permanent end uh
to the war and there has been some uh
Israeli senior official that was quoted
today when all these uh reports emerged
saying that the deal would certainly not
include uh the permanent ending uh of
the war so we have to wait and see it's
not done until it's
done for more on this Let's cross to
German Egyptian journalist Karim El
goari in Cairo Karim thank you for your
time as I understand Egyptian media are
hinting at a breakthrough in the
ceasefire talks tell us what are you
hearing yeah they they are positive
about what's happening right now they
are meeting since this morning Saturday
morning and um also there were positive
signs from the Hamas delegation there's
a spokesperson of Hamas Usama hamdan who
said that they see positive steps that
Hamas came to Cairo with a positive
spirit but also saying that uh
uh it still has to ripe meaning that
Hamas sees still things that have to be
negotiated we have also the head of the
CIA William Burns since Friday in Cairo
who is not in Cairo is the Israeli
delegation who says that they're only
coming if there's a positive answer uh
from Hamas so everything seems to be
opening but uh the negotiations seems to
be pretty serious I think one of the
main sticking points right now is that
or the main contradictions let better
say is that Hamas is demanding some kind
of guarantees for a permanent ceasefire
that this war will be over and that the
Israeli forces will withdraw from the
gaza's troops maybe Al also guarantees
from the US which they don't have to get
from the Israelis that obviously
contradicts uh the Israeli War objective
to destroy Hamas and also what Israel
what Nan is saying that in any case
there will be a rougher offensive so
it's progress but it's difficult to see
how they will overcome this very basic
contradictions okay so thank you for
outlining that that sticking point there
there have been many various attempts to
reach an agreement in the last six
months um if if the if both sides can't
come to an agreement and get over these
sticking points what will it mean for
the war if if the proposal is rejected
well what we what we experien right now
is some kind of blame game already going
on in case uh this there won't be an
agreement Hamas is clearly putting
fingers at Israel saying it's netan
who's blocking uh the ceasefire
negotiations also because a ceasefire
would endanger his own political
Survival on the other hand for example
US Secretary of State blinkin said
between the people of Gaza and the
ceasefire the only thing that stands in
between that is today Hamas so blame Day
game is going on the finger pointing is
going on for the case that this
negotiations will need lead to need lead
to Nowhere appreciate your insights
there that was German Egyptian
journalist Karim El goari in Cairo thank
you so
much you're welcome